DOCS-1470: Add data query use case (#2264)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/use-cases/sensor-data.md

      <br><br>You can <a href="/data/view/">view your data in the Viam app</a> from the <b>Data</b> tab.</p>
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      <b>3. Query data in the Viam app</b>
      <p>Once your data has synced, you can <a href="/data/query/#query-tabular-data-in-the-viam-app">query your data from within the Viam app</a> using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}}.</p>
      <p>{{< imgproc src="/data/query-ui-sql.png" alt="Viam App Data Query tab with a SQL query shown" resize="800x" class="fill alignright">}}</p>
      <p>For example, this query limits returned results to show data captured by the <code>my-ultrasonic-sensor</code> component only, and with a maximum of 5 results.
      <br><br>Once you run the query, matching results appear directly below the query.
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/data/data-query-mongosh-example.png" class="fill alignleft" resize="600x" declaredimensions=true alt="SQL query in mongosh filtering by robot, component, and specific data readings">}}

>       <b>4. Query data from a compatible client</b>

Reviewer: This formatting looks broken in the rendering

---
title: "Capture and query sensor data"
linkTitle: "Capture and query sensor data"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
description: "Query tabular data from your machine on the Viam app or from a compatible client."
---

You can use the data management service to capture tabular data from a connected component on your machine and sync that data to the cloud.
Once you have synced that data, you can query it using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} to obtain actionable insights.

For example, you might configure data capture for several sensors on your machine, or across sensors on multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.

> You could then run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your robots' operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your robots' operation.
```

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/icons/components/sensor.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="Configure the data management service">}}
      <b>1. Configure the data management service</b><br><br>
      <p>First, <a href="/fleet/machines/#add-a-new-robot">create a robot</a> if you haven't yet.</p>
      <p>Then, <a href="/data/">add the data management service</a>, and configure <a href="/data/capture/">data capture</a> and <a href="/data/cloud-sync/">cloud sync</a>.</p>
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/services/icons/sensor.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="Capture tabular data from a sensor">}}
      <b>2. Capture data</b><br><br>
      <p>Next, <a href="/data/capture/#configure-data-capture-for-individual-components">capture tabular data from a component on your machine</a>, such as a sensor. With cloud sync enabled, captured data is automatically uploaded to the Viam app after a short delay.

>       <br><br>You can <a href="/data/view/">view your synced data in the Viam app</a> from the <b>Data</b> tab.</p>

Reviewer 2: We have lots of links so thinking to remove some
```suggestion
      <br><br>You can view your synced data in the Viam app from the <b>Data</b> tab.</p>
```

---
title: "Capture and query sensor data"
linkTitle: "Capture and query sensor data"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
description: "Query tabular data from your machine on the Viam app or from a compatible client."
---

You can use the data management service to capture tabular data from a connected component on your machine and sync that data to the cloud.

> Once you have synced that data, you can query that data using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} to search through that data for actionable insights.

Reviewer 2: bit much `that data`
```suggestion
Once you have synced that data, you can query it using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} to obtain actionable insights.
```

For example, you might configure data capture for several sensors on your machine, or across sensors on multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.
You could then run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your robots' operation.

> <table>

Reviewer 2: At this point it may be worth turning this into shortcodes similar to how the cards and card shortcode work. Would you be interested in looking at that? You'll also want to look at how manualcard works.

```
{{< cards >}}
  {{% card link="LINK" %}}
  {{% card link="LINK" %}}
  {{% card link="LINK" %}}
{{< /cards >}
```

Author: Hmm, actually, I don't currently see the value proposition. A shortcode approach could more easily handle alternating image alignment? Or you want to convert these into squares instead of rectangles? Do you mean the `card` shortcode specifically, and not make-my-own new shortcode?

If the full-on card approach: It's hard to be limited to text that fits in 64x64 pixels, for examples. [These four cards](https://docs.viam.com/), for example, are quite constraining. I can't really fit some of these steps in a 1/6th the width (of current rectangular approach) box. I also can't link to more than one thing at a time per card, which really constrains each task -- for example, the single leading step currently would need to be three new cards: add DM, conf capture, conf sync.

I guess I'm asking: What is your vision for these use case pages? I can implement something to facilitate, sure -- but I think we look fine here -- what is missing that I should shortcode for?

Author: Hmm, you mean like [here](https://docs.viam.com/ml/vision/detection/#configure-an-mlmodel-detector)? I could see that working, but my age-old issue of fitting life lessons into 40 characters from 20 years ago resurfaces.

Author: OK, I have added a second option using cards exclusively. I feel that it loses a lot of good context and data.

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/icons/components/sensor.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 200px" declaredimensions=true alt="Collect data">}}
      <b>2. Capture data</b>
      <p>Then, <a href="/data/capture/#configure-data-capture-for-individual-components">capture tabular data from a component on your machine</a>, such as a sensor. Captured data is automatically synced to the cloud after a short delay.
      <br><br>You can <a href="/data/view/">view your data in the Viam app</a> from the <b>Data</b> tab.</p>
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>
      <b>3. Query data in the Viam app</b>
      <p>Once your data has synced, you can <a href="/data/query/#query-tabular-data-in-the-viam-app">query your data from within the Viam app</a> using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}}.</p>
      <p>
      {{< imgproc src="/data/query-ui-sql.png" alt="Viam App Data Query tab with a SQL query shown" resize="800x" class="fill alignright">}}

>       {{< imgproc src="/data/query-ui-mql.png" alt="Viam App Data Query tab with an MQL query shown" resize="800x" class="fill alignright">}}</p>

Reviewer 2: I think choose one of these. Probably SQL

>       <p>For example, the examples to the right demonstrate the same query in SQL and in MQL, limiting returned results to show data captured by the <code>my-ultrasonic-sensor</code> component only, and with a maximum of 5 results.

Reviewer 2: There is nothing to the right on split screen or on mobile - refer to it differently and I think also move the images on their own line, it looks a bit odd with very little text next to it (squished)
```suggestion
      <p>For example, the examples to the right demonstrate the same query in SQL and in MQL, limiting returned results to show data captured by the <code>my-ultrasonic-sensor</code> component only, and with a maximum of 5 results.
```

>       <p>For example, the examples to the right demonstrate the same query in SQL and in MQL, limiting returned results to show data captured by the <code>my-ultrasonic-sensor</code> component only, and with a maximum of 5 results.

Reviewer 2: Also `For example, the examples` needs some work 😂

>       <br><br>Matching results are displayed directly below the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      <br><br>Once you run the query, matching results appear directly below the query.
```

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <th>{{<imgproc src="/data/data-query-mongosh-example.png" class="fill alignleft" resize="600x" declaredimensions=true alt="Train models">}}

Reviewer 2: Let's not use a screenshot but put this in a code snippet instead - this isn't accessible otherwise

Author: This is background image, you can't copy the text from [these](https://docs.viam.com/ml/#use-machine-learning-with-your-machine) either. User don't have any context whatsoever into this code when they first see it here, so there's no danger of them needing it, but it not being accessible to them. Instead, it's inspiration to click on the link right next to it, which includes [copyable code](https://docs.viam.com/data/query/#query) as expected.

Reviewer 2: ok

      <b>4. Query data from a compatible client</b>

>       <p>If you prefer, you can also <a href ="/data/query/#query-tabular-data-directly-from-a-compatible-client">query your directly from an MQL-compatible client</a>, such as <code>mongosh</code> or MongoDB Compass, using SQL or MQL.</p></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      <p>If you prefer, you can also <a href ="/data/query/#query-tabular-data-directly-from-a-compatible-client">query your data directly from an MQL-compatible client</a>, such as <code>mongosh</code> or MongoDB Compass, using SQL or MQL.</p></p>
```

    </th>
  </tr>
</table>

## Next steps

For more information about working with the data management service, see the following:

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we use cards here to be more visual? You can use manual cards if you want to change the copy on them
